the impact that your father was a Democrat have
any? Did that have any impact on you? What's your
political perception? I'm a Republican. I'm a
conservative. Were you? How did you come to become
a conservative Republican?
I guess
my first conscientious national
effort, political national effort was in the
election of Eisenhower and it was probably drawn
through military. I
can't say that that was true state and local
because in Texas at that time we were still a single
party system. I happen to be,
I don't know whether we're jumping or trying to
follow a plan, but I happen to be the co-editor of
the battalion after the war. I went back to finish
my degree. I was not degreed before the war, I was
just commissioned.
Anything you want published, bring it to me. Let me
know. We're going to get you elected. And we
elected Tiger T.
You'd never say that he was conservative or
Republican. No. He'd spin in his grave.
So you became a Republican during the 50s.
which you became more conservative during the
50s, I don't know what you say, politically? Yeah,
I'd say that's right. And then during the 60s, did
you vote for Goldwater or for Johnson? Goldwater.
Goldwater, and then you've been what you consider
a conservative Republican ever since? Yep. Okay.
Now... Without apology. I'm not asking for an
apology. Laying right down there on the couch with
no apologies. Have you read it? No. No, I haven't.
Oh, . No matter what your political .
about where you lived, your accommodations,
and the core outfit that you were in. Okay.
The first half of my freshman year,
I lived in Ms. Yule's boarding house in downtown
Bryan. You know Ms. Yule? I've heard about that.
two lovely twins, daughters.
There were, oh, I guess six or eight of us cadets
living in the house plus three or four
The courthouse grounds, and it is the block where
the courthouse is now, became our
predominant recreation grounds. We played touch
football. We played everything imaginable out
there on the grounds because that wasn't the only
rooming house or boarding house.
were. Then I went into
second headquarters battery
mid freshman year and the battery was located in
Milner,
but we had three rooms in Ross.
and I lived in room 2 Ross and room 2 Ross was right on
the end and that's the south end on the ground
floor.
It was the ideal room to have because we had it
rigged where all we had to do was just touch the
screen like that and it would fall and when the
upperclassmen hit that front door on an air out all
we did was touch that screen and long past Sully
headed south before they ever got to the door of our
room, but that was better than living on the top
floor of Milner, except the fact that we were
separated from the main part of the battery.
I was rumored to
call my name Colson. five-year student he lived
over at
second half of freshman year, all the sophomore
year. And then the next year they open, they still
call it the new dorm. And they farm more units. And
how they decided who was going to
My
sophomore year, I managed to get around the
miller. What was your opinion of
pacing? I don't really have an opinion of it. You
either accepted it or you weren't there, you know.
Did you accept it?
And they can pour one hell of a day into one day that a
lot of people went through a whole year and never
got as much as we got the one day of initiation into
the cross-border period, which was nothing
except physical mayhem and hatred. Admin. Oh. I
got pictures that even my wife wouldn't look at.
Hurley. Oh, yeah. Listers. Oh, yeah. Blue, black
and blue.
Did you see a purpose in that? At that time, no. I
can't see a purpose in it now either.
I don't, you know, talking to other people, I guess
it's like I said, it was a
The sign of the times is not really a good
description, but it wasn't at Texas A&M only. I
have a friend that lives two blocks over here right
now. He's at a fraternity reunion at Oklahoma
State right now.
Just before he left, he said, boy, I wish I could
find my boy.
I imagine
Westmoreland and Annapolis was just as equal,
maybe worse, never having been through this. I
don't know.
I'm sure people have been. Did you ever have a
position of leadership when you were in the Corps?
That's a question that can be answered in a
different way. One would all but have to define
leadership.
The second headquarters, Field Artillery,
was a horse-drawn Field Artillery unit. We still
had a horse, a dowry and a field artillery boat.
the nuclear body of the so-called enlisted men and
the juniors at that time made up the sergeants and
the seniors were the cadets.
On a three-team hookup
of pulling either a cannon or an ammunition
limber,
the rider of the wheel team is the leader.
And he tells the lead team and the swing team when to
bear into the traces and when to let up and so on to
make that thing run smooth.
If that is one's definition of a leader, hell yes.
but uh that's that's just in the softwoods and then
the junior year when
when they made these new batteries and we moved
into the new dormitories
i went into h battery and became a four striper all
the other juniors are either our three stripers
and left their own battalion corps staff, except
the first sergeant. The first sergeant and a four
striper in each battery. And I was a four striper.
And our first sergeant was
a table waiter. And so it fell on my lot to fall in the
battery, to farm the battery, at each of the meals
before going into it. Now, to make it even worse,
boy, if we don't learn anything from history, how
will we learn this one? This first sergeant was a
freshman first sergeant, not a freshman, a fish
first sergeant, meaning his first year on campus.
And he wore, I don't know what he was wearing, a
little white stripe around his sleeve, but he wore
First Sergeant stripes. And therefore, he had no
recognition. He was a fish to everybody, just like
he was a first-year student. He was a transfer from
Louisiana into the veterinary medicine school.
So both being in the veterinary medicine business
and a table waiter took him completely out of our
battery. unofficially, and left me as the titular
first sergeant of the Battery because I was the
force driver. Well, unfortunately, there's good
news and bad news. I did not scholastically
qualify as a senior, and they learned their
mistake, and they put him on a battalion staff
rather than making the Battery commander the next
from the outside to take the battery my senior
year. A guy from Beaumont. He was a damn good, you
know, good classmate, a good battery commander
and all that. But, yeah, I found myself in a number
of positions, both military as well as on the
battalion, you know, of responsibility.
Again,
My interpretation or definition of leadership
gets into management a whole lot quicker than some
people. Well, we'll talk about that. Let's talk
now about the Corps itself. What were some of the
things that you liked about being in the Corps?
Did you enjoy the Corps? Oh, yes. Well, why? What
were some of those things
that you liked?
It provided a quasi-military atmosphere without
actually
committing a person to being in the Army or the
Marine or the Navy. You didn't have an Air Force at
that time. It certainly gave one the opportunity
to develop
friendship quicker and friendships that would
probably last longer than
just living in a dormitory next door to a couple of
guys that you may know and you may not know because
it was forced upon you to to know them to know their
background and know something about them to be
able to recite all who these people were
constantly try to meet more people and more people
and more people. Like a camaraderie. That's a good
point. As
long as it's not overused.
like years later when I was up there as an
instructor, there were three of us walking along
in front of the Student Union, and here came a young
freshman. Oh, and he slew him three times and says,
howdy, howdy, howdy, sir, sir, sir. I
think it can be overdone, and when it is, it's...
still the day to meet with the form of aging.
When it's done in sincerity, and when whoever's
pushing the button is doing it, knowing that
there's a degree of having a pullback or
the person's entitled to a certain amount of
I guess
the further you get away from it,
And then you come back and say, yeah, this is what
it was. Were there any things about the choir that
you disliked? That I disliked?
Well, I guess at the time there were. And
yet as one
moved up to himself and realized it was necessary.
My freshman year, for instance, I would dislike
being told that you've got to go play in an
intramural game when you do that because, well,
let's you know, that you had no skill in it, but then
later on you realize that, gee, if we hadn't been
there, we'd have farfetched it, and that's the
worst thing we could do, was farfetch it. And as
you, growing up, you began to realize that some of
these things that you disliked,
I
didn't, you know,
I didn't. lying if I said that I understood the
words at the time, but I did not particularly care
for what I now know to be mass punishment,
and I never have. In fact, later I tell you a story
that I actually used at A&M, but too often in a
military situation, it's easier to
keep looking to find the guy and then punish the
hell out of him. That's
a favorite stunt.
In a military organization that has no
real maturity, and I'm talking about maturity and
age, it's easy for young men to do that. And
happen. They don't realize it is when they do it.
But
I made some cheater notes the other day. I don't
think I put down anything I dislike. I
put the question here, why A&M? But I figured you'd
ask that one. Well, let's talk about that one.
Well, I think we'd already talked about that. I
think we already talked about why you Out of
those four H's, two went to Rice, one went to Sam
Houston, and I went to A&M, so that kind of split us
up after high school. The two that went to Rice
happened to be in a National Guard tank outfit, and
both of them ended up going to Iceland rather than
finish Rice, because the Guard wouldn't let them
out. You'd
probably have to go back in history to remember us
going into Iceland with a horse.
I was wondering about what ways the Corps helped
you in your military career.
I think it gives you, that it gave me a one-up on
my contemporaries that didn't live a core life as
they were going through
college and taking military, ROGC.
Where is that one up? A little more as to how to get
along with people. A little more how to manage
people. A little more concern for the needs of
people. What makes the guy tick?
How many people
are motivated by what? Plans of their ego or play
into a short time physical need or a long time moral
need or just being able to recognize those things
in not only your subordinates but the people that
you're dealing with, that you're trying to get or
to cooperate with you in order to get your or your
boss's job done. It's a laboratory that we
actually live that, again, the contemporary that
didn't either go to West Point, VMI, or Texas A&M,
just didn't have. So you had a head start? I
certainly think so.
Again, I was... first lieutenant squadron
commander at the age of 21. Captain at the age of 22
and major at the age of 23. And, and I could look back
and see contemporaries that
just weren't going that fast.
I had
Do you think that
there are any ways in which the court hindered your
career? No.
Not the career that I had chosen.
I think that there are ways that the court could
hinder certain careers, but after all, for an
individual who wanted to become A military
officer and a civil engineer doesn't know where
the court
is. Were there certain officers at A&M that helped
you, while you were a foreman, that helped you as
far as your firm was concerned? Or were you thought
really fine officers, or in some way were role
models or leaders for you?
Yes.
Colonel Beasley was the head of the Steel
Artillery.
And
looking back in all of my years in service.
If they handpicked that man for that job, whoever
did that
one of the most outstanding
jobs ever performed because he was absolutely
ideal. The we had a a cadre of field artillery
officers that under his guidance and direction
were just super
teenage. And so Garrison was immaculately
dressed at all times. And
it's pretty warm around A&M. And yet, we can look at
that man and think, boy, you know, and he gave us
something to try to, you know, live up to, you know,
He can look that way when he's in the dress uniform
or in uniform and we should look the same way.
Great. What I'm trying to reach though is the coach
of the rifle and pistol team.
Maybe Bill related this story to you, but I'll get
his name yet, even if I have to go look it up. Between
our junior and senior year, all the cadets in the
8th Corps area, except the chem warfare cadets,
met at Bliss in El Paso. And we divided into an
offensive team and a defensive team.
back down New Mexico, back to Bliss. Then we came on
back home. Well, you remember I said that we still
had horses. Well, by the time our junior and senior
year came along, they had wiped the horses out of
the artillery. But the cavalry still had horses.
They'd load those horses in these great big vans
and move them across country. And then they'd take
the horses out to make the attack or something like
that.
We were on the defense of Roswell.
And our four guns had been separated. The two guns
that I was with, we were sitting in an apple
orchard. And the other two guns were way over on the
other side of Roswell. We didn't even know where
they were. But we knew they were on the defense. And
intelligence had told us that we were going to be
attacked on our flank by mounted cowboys.
Well, the captain gave the instructions to the
cadet captain, go ahead and fire your blanks, all
but two, load and lock, and fire on my command. And
so we went through the procedures of firing up over
the hill, and we didn't even see the captain, but of
course we knew they were out there somewhere, so we
were just lob
By then we were down to the last two rounds. And he
said, load and lock and fire on my command. We were
into this apple orchard just about 20 or 30 yards
off the road. And he let that cavalry get right at
the ditch on the other side of the road. And then he
said, fire. And when those two cannons went off,
there were 150 riderless men laying on their
butts, and there were horses all over the hill.
They picked up horses all night that night. This is
one of our attack officers from A&M. And again,
his handling the rifle team and the pistol team and
pulling things like that,
pure signs that, you know, They're human, just
like everybody else. They got a sense of humor.
When you lose that sense of humor, you're gone.
I often wish that we could have had that attack
officer that I had.
Garrison.
They called us my sophomore year. We were
firing a salute to Governor O'Daniel.
And we had the, our battery was firing a salute. We
were sitting in
the cedar trees just across,
there in the old assembly building. Great big
secret. We had all four canons. We were kind of
hidden. And so we had course, the upperclassmen,
the lettuce part of the solution to guns as long as
we keep the timing. So when you fire 16 gun salute,
you got a certain timing. Guns go off. Two guns got
to really move. Got to open that breeze and get that
hot booger out of there and get another one in and
get ready. And they said, okay.
That's one of the reasons that cadets did not like
to see former Aggies come back to teach military
and to be tackles. Because we went up on them and
that made them charge a little bit harder to get
ahead of us. Do you think, or what are your thoughts
on the quality of officer training that you're
receiving?
Well, I've had
many, many
social conversations
and many, many more conversations with
contemporaries as well as seniors from West
Point.
I wouldn't in any way try to say that that at A&M was
better than VMI because VMI are faced with the same
problems that people at A&M are faced with. The
quality of training for me is so much better
at A&M and BMI
than at one of the military schools because One of
the military academies? One of the military
academies. West Point, Annapolis, or even the Air
Force Academy.
Because to start with,
the beginner didn't get there by being
hand-selected and therefore have the feeling
that
I am something just by being human. He still has to
win his first and he still has a chance of being the
top guy or he can end up right on the bottom. He is not
assured that if he graduates that he's going to
have any type of a career, which therefore doesn't
build into him any type of complacency.
He has a more awkward look on life
and the way life is lived and even business and
economy. You don't have just blinders on that
says, let's take one of the schools, Westmont, I
want to name it. Everybody takes the same course,
no matter whether you came there with two years,
three years, or were already a graduate from
another college or what, and you take this course,
and when you finish, you're a second lieutenant.
Now, according to rank in the class, you can decide
what you want to go into. The infantry, the
engineers, or the artillery, or what do you want to
go into? And you get your pick, according to so many
down the line.
They say,
well, that's what they're supposed to do, but I
don't fully agree. They have educated this man to
do one thing, and that's to serve in the army.
Unfortunately, when the guy gets to a certain
level, and he gets there in a hurry, he's got to deal
with too many people that are not subject to
military discipline. That's civil servants. And
he's got to deal with business people to see that
he's getting the best deal that he can for the Army
or for his unit. And it's just not there. And so you
think at West Point they just don't have that
training, but they do at A&M? Certainly.
Even more so now that the Corps is a minor group of
the colleges or the universities I was done. And
still managed to, managing to hold its own in the
university and be as influential as it is.
Because they're working both sides of the street.
Of course, when I was there, it was compulsory and
everybody, you know, even your junior and senior
year, even if you didn't, You weren't taken
military. You still lived in the unit and you still
wore a uniform. So you feel then that becoming an
Aggie officer, you're more qualified to be an
officer than at the military academy? Ah, sure.
How about at other ROTC type institutions? Only if
they're in a core situation and that's the reason I
included VMI.
Could you make a generalization about other ROTC
schools and the type of officer that they produce
versus the Aggie officers? Well, no more than to
say that they are meeting
their goal or their mission, and that is to turn out
a reserve officer. who may or may not, of his own
free will, decide to stay on active duty and become
a regular officer.
Again, as we said earlier, I just think that this
guy that has lived the core situation has got that
one-up. He's got a broader outlook because it's
not limited to just serve it in the military. What
about VMI? Do you compare the Aggie training with
that of VMI and the quality of the officers? Yes,
I've seen it too. Very, very similar. From what I
have witnessed, the VMI officers that I know, as
compared to the service
Let's talk about your academic career at A&M. Why?
Well, you might sum it up. I said a while ago that I
took freshman chemistry two semesters credit. I
took it five semesters.
I went to summer school two summers and still at the
end of my fourth year.
studied petroleum engineering. The first year,
all engineering the same, but then while it's the
second year, it begins to switch. I mean, to vary
and branch out. And I finally convinced him I
didn't want to be a petroleum engineer. He said,
okay, study mechanical. And I said, well,
mechanical, mechanical. So
been good friends for a long time. And I finally
left that school and looked back and said, man, the
quickest way I can get out of here is I'm going to
have a degree by the time I'm finished to go
engineering administration, which of course
they no longer have there. But most of it was based
on
Anyway, I needed about 14 hours at the time that
May, June 41 rolled around. And coincidentally,
there were 14 of us. And they put in, asked for a
deferment bar, and none of us got a deferment. The
war class went, period. We all had orders before we
were even commissioned.
So academically, I guess I was there to
study when I wanted to study and make the grades
when I could and spend more time working
on the newspaper.
At the start of my junior year, I had the academics
to get in the Ross Volunteer.
I was eligible to be a four-striper. I had to be a
scholastic junior to be a four-striper. Made it
into the Ross Volunteers, but then didn't make it
in my senior year. And it was mid-year, senior year
before I ever got to be a commission officer. By
that time, I got the single one-button second
lieutenant. Were there any, do you remember any
faculty or staff professional soldiers, but
teachers that had an impact on you. An impact?
Are you close to any faculty members? Close to, you
say?